Custom Blockchains -> Create a custom pallet (#96)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet.md

---
title: Create a Custom Pallet
description: Learn how to create custom pallets using FRAME, allowing for flexible, modular, and scalable blockchain development. Follow the step-by-step guide.
---

# Create a Custom Pallet

## Introduction

> To get the most out of this guide, ensure you're familiar with [FRAME concepts](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank}. FRAME provides a powerful set of tools for blockchain development, including a library of pre-built pallets. However, its true strength lies in the ability to create custom pallets tailored to your specific needs. This section will guide you through the process of creating your own custom pallet, allowing you to extend your blockchain's functionality in unique ways.

Reviewer: IMO, I think starting off the guide with "To get the most out of this guide..." comes off a little strong. I'd recommend wrapping up the initial paragraph with it instead. So users can have some knowledge about what the page is about before getting ushered to another page 🤷‍♀️

> To get the most out of this guide, ensure you're familiar with [FRAME concepts](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank}. FRAME provides a powerful set of tools for blockchain development, including a library of pre-built pallets. However, its true strength lies in the ability to create custom pallets tailored to your specific needs. This section will guide you through the process of creating your own custom pallet, allowing you to extend your blockchain's functionality in unique ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the most out of this guide, ensure you're familiar with [FRAME concepts](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank}. FRAME provides a powerful set of tools for blockchain development, including a library of pre-built pallets. However, its true strength lies in the ability to create custom pallets tailored to your specific needs. This section will guide you through creating your own custom pallet, allowing you to extend your blockchain's functionality in unique ways.
```

> Creating custom pallets offer several advantages over relying on pre-built pallets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating custom pallets offers several advantages over relying on pre-built pallets:
```

- Flexibility - define runtime behavior that precisely matches your project requirements
- Modularity - combine pre-built and custom pallets to achieve the desired blockchain functionality
- Scalability - add or modify features as your project evolves

As you follow this guide to create your custom pallet, you'll work with the following key sections:

1. Imports and dependencies - bring in necessary FRAME libraries and external modules
2. Runtime configuration trait - specify the types and constants required for your pallet to interact with the runtime
3. Runtime events - define events that your pallet can emit to communicate state changes
4. Runtime errors - define the error types that can be returned from the function calls dispatched to the runtime
5. Runtime storage - declare on-chain storage items for your pallet's state
6. Extrinsics (function calls) - create callable functions that allow users to interact with your pallet and execute transactions

> For other available macros you can include in a pallet that aren't mentioned in this guide, refer to the [pallet_macros](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/index.html){target=\_blank} section of the Polkadot SDK Docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional macros you can include in a pallet, beyond those covered in this guide, refer to the [pallet_macros](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/index.html){target=\_blank} section of the Polkadot SDK Docs.
```

## Initial Setup

This section will guide you through the initial steps of creating the foundation for your custom FRAME pallet. You'll create a new Rust library project and set up the necessary dependencies.

1. Create a new Rust library project

>     Execute the following command using `cargo`:

Reviewer: I think some of these steps can be a bit more concise: "Create a new Rust library project using the following `cargo` command:", "Configure the dependencies required for FRAME pallet development in the `Cargo.toml` file as follows", etc.

    This command creates a new library project named `custom-pallet` and navigates into its directory.

2.  Configure dependencies in `Cargo.toml` file

    Add the core dependencies required for FRAME pallet development. Open the `Cargo.toml` file and update it as follows:

    ```toml
    --8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/Cargo.toml'
    ```

    !!!note
        Proper version management is crucial for ensuring compatibility and reducing potential conflicts in your project. Carefully select the versions of the packages according to your project's specific requirements:

        - When developing for a specific Polkadot SDK runtime, ensure that your pallet's dependency versions match those of the target runtime
        - If you're creating this pallet within a Polkadot SDK workspace:

            - Define the actual versions in the root `Cargo.toml` file
            - Use workspace inheritance in your pallet's `Cargo.toml` to maintain consistency across your project
        - Regularly check for updates to FRAME and Polkadot SDK dependencies to benefit from the latest features, performance improvements, and security patches

>         For more detailed information on workspace inheritance and how to properly integrate your pallet with the runtime, refer to the [Add Existing Pallet to the Runtime](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        For detailed information on workspace inheritance and how to properly integrate your pallet with the runtime, refer to the [Add an Existing Pallet to the Runtime](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} page.
```

3.  Set up the basic pallet structure

>     After setting up the project and configuring dependencies, the next step is to prepare the basic structure of your pallet in the `lib.rs` file. Open the `src/lib.rs` file in your project, remove all existing content and copy and paste the following scaffold code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After setting up the project and configuring dependencies, the next step is to prepare the basic structure of your pallet in the `lib.rs` file. Open the `src/lib.rs` file in your project, remove all existing content, and copy and paste the following scaffold code:
```

    ```rust
    --8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/barebone-pallet-template.rs'
    ```

>     With this scaffold in place, you're ready to start implementing the specific logic and features of your custom pallet. The subsequent sections of this guide will walk you through populating each of these components with the necessary code for your pallet's functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    With this scaffold in place, you're ready to start implementing your custom pallet's specific logic and features. The subsequent sections of this guide will walk you through populating each of these components with the necessary code for your pallet's functionality.
```

## Pallet Configuration

> Every pallet includes a Rust trait called [`Config`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/trait.Config.html){target=\_blank}, which is used to expose configurable options and link your pallet to other parts of the runtime. All types and constants that the pallet depends on must be declared within this trait. These types are defined generically and made concrete when the pallet is instantiated in the `runtime/src/lib.rs` file of your blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every pallet includes a Rust trait called [`Config`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/trait.Config.html), which exposes configurable options and links your pallet to other parts of the runtime. All types and constants the pallet depends on must be declared within this trait. These types are defined generically and made concrete when the pallet is instantiated in the `runtime/src/lib.rs` file of your blockchain.
```

In this step, you'll only configure the common types used by all pallets:

> - `RuntimeEvent` - since this pallet emits events, it requires the runtime's event type to handle them. This ensures that events generated by the pallet can be correctly processed and interpreted by the runtime
> - `WeightInfo` - this type defines the weights associated with the pallet's callable functions (also known as dispatchables). Weights help measure the computational cost of executing these functions. However the WeightInfo type will be left unconfigured, since setting up custom weights is outside the scope of this guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`RuntimeEvent`** - since this pallet emits events, the runtime event type is required to handle them. This ensures that events generated by the pallet can be correctly processed and interpreted by the runtime
- **`WeightInfo`** - this type defines the weights associated with the pallet's callable functions (also known as dispatchables). Weights help measure the computational cost of executing these functions. However, the `WeightInfo` type will be left unconfigured since setting up custom weights is outside the scope of this guide
```

Replace the line containing the [`#[pallet::config]`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/attr.config.html){target=\_blank} macro with the following code block:

```rust
--8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/pallet-config.rs'
```

## Pallet Events

> After configuring the pallet to emit events, the next step is to define the events that can be triggered by functions within the pallet. Events provide a straightforward way to inform external entities such as dApps, chain explorers, or users, that a significant change has occurred in the runtime. In a FRAME pallet, the details of each event and its parameters are included in the node’s metadata, making them accessible to external tools and interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring the pallet to emit events, the next step is to define the events that can be triggered by functions within the pallet. Events provide a straightforward way to inform external entities, such as dApps, chain explorers, or users, that a significant change has occurred in the runtime. In a FRAME pallet, the details of each event and its parameters are included in the node’s metadata, making them accessible to external tools and interfaces.
```

> The [`generate_deposit`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/attr.generate_deposit.html){target=\_blank} macro generates a `deposit_event` function on the Pallet, which converts the pallet’s event type into the [`RuntimeEvent`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.RuntimeEvent){target=\_blank} (as specified in the `Config` trait) and deposits it using [`frame_system::Pallet::deposit_event`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/struct.Pallet.html#method.deposit_event){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`generate_deposit`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/attr.generate_deposit.html){target=\_blank} macro generates a `deposit_event` function on the `Pallet`, which converts the pallet’s event type into the [`RuntimeEvent`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.RuntimeEvent){target=\_blank} (as specified in the `Config` trait) and deposits it using [`frame_system::Pallet::deposit_event`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/struct.Pallet.html#method.deposit_event){target=\_blank}.
```
I'm assuming this is referencing code, if not, please make it lowercase without any backticks

To define events, replace the [`#[pallet::event]`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/attr.event.html){target=\_blank} line with the following code block:

```rust
--8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/pallet-event.rs'
```

## Pallet Errors

While events signal the successful completion of calls, errors indicate when and why a call has failed. It's essential to use informative names for errors to clearly communicate the cause of failure. Like events, error documentation is included in the node's metadata, so providing helpful descriptions is crucial.

Errors are defined as an enum named `Error` with a generic type. Variants can have fields or be fieldless. Any field type specified in the error must implement the [`TypeInfo`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_prelude/trait.TypeInfo.html){target=\_blank} trait, and the encoded size of each field should be as small as possible. Runtime errors can be up to 4 bytes in size, allowing the return of additional information when needed.

> This step defines two basic errors: one for handling cases where no value has been set, and another for managing arithmetic overflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step defines two basic errors: one for handling cases where no value has been set and another for managing arithmetic overflow.
```

To define errors, replace the [`#[pallet::error]`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/attr.error.html){target=\_blank} line with the following code block:

```rust
--8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/pallet-error.rs'
```

## Pallet Storage

> To persist and store state/data within the pallet (and subsequently, the blockchain you are building) the `#[pallet::storage]` macro is used. This macro allows the definition of abstract storage within the runtime and sets metadata for that storage. It can be applied multiple times to define different storage items. There are several types available for defining storage, which can be explored in the [Polkadot SDK documentation](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/storage/types/index.html){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To persist and store state/data within the pallet (and subsequently, the blockchain you are building), the `#[pallet::storage]` macro is used. This macro allows the definition of abstract storage within the runtime and sets metadata for that storage. It can be applied multiple times to define different storage items. Several types are available for defining storage, which you can explore in the [Polkadot SDK documentation](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/storage/types/index.html){target=\_blank}.
```

This step adds a simple storage item, `Something`, which stores a single `u32` value in the pallet's runtime storage

To define storage, replace the [`#[pallet::storage]`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/attr.storage.html){target=\_blank} line with the following code block:

```rust
--8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/pallet-storage.rs'
```

## Pallet Dispatchable Extrinsics

> Dispatchable functions enable users to interact with the pallet and trigger state changes. These functions are represented as "extrinsics," which are similar to transactions. They must return a [`DispatchResult`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/dispatch/type.DispatchResult.html){target=\_blank} and be annotated with both a weight and a call index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dispatchable functions enable users to interact with the pallet and trigger state changes. These functions are represented as "extrinsics," which are similar to transactions. They must return a [`DispatchResult`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/dispatch/type.DispatchResult.html){target=\_blank} and be annotated with a weight and a call index.
```

The `#[pallet::call_index]` macro is used to explicitly define an index for calls in the `Call` enum. This is useful for maintaining backward compatibility in the event of new dispatchables being introduced, as changing the order of dispatchables would otherwise alter their index.

The `#[pallet::weight]` macro assigns a weight to each call, determining its execution cost.

This section adds two dispatchable functions:

> - `do_something` - takes a single u32 value, stores it in the pallet's storage, and emits an event
> - `cause_error` - checks if a value exists in storage. If found, increments the value and stores it back. If no value is present, or an overflow occurs, a custom error is returned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`do_something`** - takes a single `u32` value, stores it in the pallet's storage, and emits an event
- **`cause_error`** - checks if a value exists in storage. If the value is found, it increments and is stored back. If no value is present or an overflow occurs, a custom error is returned
```

To implement these calls, replace the [`#[pallet::call]`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/pallet_macros/attr.call.html){target=\_blank} line with the following code block:

```rust
--8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/pallet-call.rs'
```

## Pallet Implementation Overview

After following all the previous steps, the pallet is now fully implemented. Below is the complete code, combining the configuration, events, errors, storage, and dispatchable functions:

???code
    ```rust
    --8<-- 'code/develop/parachain-devs/runtime-development/FRAME/create-custom-pallet/full-pallet.rs'
    ```

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Where to Go Next
```

With the pallet implemented, the next steps involve ensuring its reliability and performance before integrating it into a runtime. Check the following sections:

> - [Testing](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} - learn how to effectively test the functionality and reliability of your pallet to ensure it behaves as expected
> 
> - [Benchmarking](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} - explore methods to measure the performance and execution cost of your pallet
> 
> - [Add a Pallet to the Runtime](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} - follow this guide to include your pallet in a Polkadot SDK-based runtime, making it ready for use in your blockchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Testing**](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} - learn how to effectively test the functionality and reliability of your pallet to ensure it behaves as expected

- [**Benchmarking**](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} - explore methods to measure the performance and execution cost of your pallet

- [**Add a Pallet to the Runtime**](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} - follow this guide to include your pallet in a Polkadot SDK-based runtime, making it ready for use in your blockchain
```

---
title: Create a Custom Pallet
description: TODO
---

# Create a Custom Pallet

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 3: Should we also have a prerequisite section?

Author: I've added to the introduction this sentence:
`To get the most out of this guide, ensure you're familiar with [FRAME concepts](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank}.`

Do you think that's enough? At this stage of the docs, I don't think adding a prereq like 'Make sure you have rust installed` is relevant.

Reviewer: I made a comment about this in my PR review, but it was more just that I don't think that should be the first sentence of the page

But are there any other prerequisites besides knowledge of FRAME concepts?

Custom pallets offer several advantages:

- Flexibility - define runtime behavior that precisely matches your project requirements
- Modularity - combine pre-built and custom pallets to achieve the desired blockchain functionality
- Scalability - add or modify features as your project evolves

As you follow this guide to create your custom pallet, you'll work with the following key sections:

1. Imports and dependencies - bring in necessary FRAME libraries and external modules
2. Runtime configuration trait - specify the types and constants required for your pallet to interact with the runtime
3. Runtime events - define events that your pallet can emit to communicate state changes
4. Runtime errors - define the error types that can be returned from the function calls dispatched to the runtime
5. Runtime storage - declare on-chain storage items for your pallet's state
6. Extrinsics (function calls) - create callable functions that allow users to interact with your pallet and execute transactions

> ## Initial Setup

Author: I don't know how we should handle versioning. 

I decided to start with this barebone template to make it easier to understand what each section does and readers can add them to their code incrementaly

> ## Initial Setup

Reviewer 3: OK, we can leave it for now, maybe not relevant for this page anyway

    ```toml
    [package]
    name = "custom-pallet"
    version = "0.1.0"
    edition = "2021"
    
    [dependencies]
    frame-support = { version = "37.0.0", default-features = false }
    frame-system = { version = "37.0.0", default-features = false }
    codec = { version = "3.6.12", default-features = false, package = "parity-scale-codec", features = ["derive"] }
    scale-info = { version = "2.11.1", default-features = false, features = ["derive"] }
    sp-runtime = { version = "39.0.0", default-features = false }

    [features]
    default = ["std"]
    std = [
        "frame-support/std",
        "frame-system/std",
        "codec/std",
        "scale-info/std",
        "sp-runtime/std",
    ]
    ```

    !!!note
        Carefully select the versions of the packages according to your project's specific requirements:

        - When developing for a specific Polkadot SDK runtime, ensure that your pallet's dependency versions match those of the target runtime
        - If you're creating this pallet within a Polkadot SDK workspace:

            - Define the actual versions in the root `Cargo.toml` file

>             - Use workspace inheritance in your pallet's `Cargo.toml` to maintain consistency across your project

Reviewer 2: I'd add a sentence that refers to the page "Add Existing Pallet to the Runtime" since there it's explained this workspace inheritance thing

        - Regularly check for updates to FRAME and Polkadot SDK dependencies to benefit from the latest features, performance improvements, and security patches

        Proper version management is crucial for ensuring compatibility and reducing potential conflicts in your project.

3.  Set up the basic pallet structure

    After setting up the project and configuring dependencies, the next step is to prepare the basic structure of your pallet in the `lib.rs` file. Open the `src/lib.rs` file in your project, remove all existing content and copy and paste the following scaffold code:

>     ```rust

Reviewer 2: This should be a code snippet

    pub use pallet::*;

    #[frame_support::pallet]
    pub mod pallet {
        use frame_support::pallet_prelude::*;
        use frame_system::pallet_prelude::*;

        #[pallet::pallet]
        pub struct Pallet<T>(_);

        #[pallet::config]  // snip
        #[pallet::event]   // snip
        #[pallet::error]   // snip
        #[pallet::storage] // snip
        #[pallet::call]    // snip
    }
    ```

    With this scaffold in place, you're ready to start implementing the specific logic and features of your custom pallet. The subsequent sections of this guide will walk you through populating each of these components with the necessary code for your pallet's functionality.

## Pallet Configuration

Every pallet includes a Rust trait called [`Config`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_system/pallet/trait.Config.html){target=\_blank}, which is used to expose configurable options and link your pallet to other parts of the runtime. All types and constants that the pallet depends on must be declared within this trait. These types are defined generically and made concrete when the pallet is instantiated in the `runtime/src/lib.rs` file of your blockchain.

> In this step, you'll configure the pallet to emit events. 

Reviewer 2: I recommend paraphrasing this sentence

AFAIK each single pallet must configure the following:
-  type RuntimeEvent - so the events emitted by the pallet are accessible to the runtime
- type WeightInfo - that represents the weight that each call of the pallet will have

(btw, unsure if that is the most technical explanation, but it's just to showcase my point here)

So I'd add the explanation of those two types that will be contained in each single pallet, and then, I'd add a sentence that says something like: "You can also add as many types as you need" or something like that.

Replace the existing #[pallet::config] line with the following code block:

```rust
#[pallet::config]
pub trait Config: frame_system::Config {
    /// The overarching runtime event type.
    type RuntimeEvent: From<Event<Self>> + IsType<<Self as frame_system::Config>::RuntimeEvent>;
    /// A type representing the weights required by the dispatchables of this pallet.
    type WeightInfo: WeightInfo;
}
```

## Pallet Events

After configuring the pallet to emit events, the next step is to define the events that can be triggered by functions within the pallet. Events provide a straightforward way to inform external entities such as dApps, chain explorers, or users, that a significant change has occurred in the runtime. In a FRAME pallet, the details of each event and its parameters are included in the node’s metadata, making them accessible to external tools and interfaces.

> The `generate_deposit` macro generates a `deposit_event` function on the Pallet, which converts the pallet’s event type into the `RuntimeEvent` (as specified in the `Config` trait) and deposits it using `frame_system::Pallet::deposit_event`.

Reviewer 2: Add reference to generate_deposit, deposit_event, RuntimeEvent from the rust docs of the polkadot sdk

To define events, replace the `#[pallet::event]` line with the following code block:

```rust
#[pallet::event]
#[pallet::generate_deposit(pub(super) fn deposit_event)]
pub enum Event<T: Config> {
    /// A user has successfully set a new value.
    SomethingStored {
        /// The new value set.
        something: u32,
        /// The account who set the new value.
        who: T::AccountId,
    },
}
```

## Pallet Errors

While events signal the successful completion of calls, errors indicate when and why a call has failed. It's essential to use informative names for errors to clearly communicate the cause of failure. Like events, error documentation is included in the node's metadata, so providing helpful descriptions is crucial.

Errors are defined as an enum named `Error` with a generic type. Variants can have fields or be fieldless. Any field type specified in the error must implement the `scale_info::TypeInfo` trait, and the encoded size of each field should be as small as possible. Runtime errors can be up to 4 bytes in size, allowing the return of additional information when needed.

> This step defines two basic errors: one for handling cases where no value has been set, and another for managing arithmetic overflow.

Reviewer 2: This is nitpicking so it's up to you, but I'd move this sentence AFTER the code snippet

> To define errors, replace the `#[pallet::error]` line with the following code block:

Reviewer 2: refere to rust docs

```rust
#[pallet::error]
pub enum Error<T> {
    /// The value retrieved was `None` as no value was previously set.
    NoneValue,
    /// There was an attempt to increment the value in storage over `u32::MAX`.
    StorageOverflow,
}
```

## Pallet Storage

To store data in the pallet, the `#[pallet::storage]` macro is used. This macro allows the definition of abstract storage within the runtime and sets metadata for that storage. It can be applied multiple times to define different storage items. There are several types available for defining storage, which can be explored in the [Polkadot SDK documentation](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/storage/types/index.html){target=\_blank}.

> This step adds a simple storage item, `Something`, which stores a single `u32` value in the pallet's runtime storage

Reviewer 2: Same here, I'd move the explanation of the code snippet right after it

To define storage, replace the #[pallet::storage] line with the following code block:

```rust
#[pallet::storage]
pub type Something<T> = StorageValue<_, u32>;
```

## Pallet Calls

> Dispatchable functions enable users to interact with the pallet and trigger state changes. These functions are represented as "extrinsics," which are similar to transactions. They must return a `DispatchResult` and be annotated with both a weight and a call index.

Reviewer 2: add the following reference https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/dispatch/type.DispatchResult.html for `DispatchResult`

> Dispatchable functions enable users to interact with the pallet and trigger state changes. These functions are represented as "extrinsics," which are similar to transactions. They must return a `DispatchResult` and be annotated with both a weight and a call index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dispatchable functions enable users to interact with the pallet and trigger state changes. These functions are represented as "extrinsics", which are similar to transactions. They must return a `DispatchResult` and be annotated with a weight and a call index.
```

        // Emit an event.
        Self::deposit_event(Event::SomethingStored { something, who });

        // Return a successful `DispatchResult`
        Ok(())
    }

    #[pallet::call_index(1)]
    #[pallet::weight(Weight::default())]
    pub fn cause_error(origin: OriginFor<T>) -> DispatchResult {
        let _who = ensure_signed(origin)?;

        // Read a value from storage.
        match Something::<T>::get() {
            // Return an error if the value has not been set.
            None => Err(Error::<T>::NoneValue.into()),
            Some(old) => {
                // Increment the value read from storage. This will cause an error in the event
                // of overflow.
                let new = old.checked_add(1).ok_or(Error::<T>::StorageOverflow)?;
                // Update the value in storage with the incremented result.
                Something::<T>::put(new);
                Ok(())
            },
        }
    }
}
```

## Pallet Implementation Overview

After following all the previous steps, the pallet is now fully implemented. Below is the complete code, combining the configuration, events, errors, storage, and dispatchable functions:

> ???code

Reviewer 2: Move this one to a code snippet

                let _who = ensure_signed(origin)?;
        
                // Read a value from storage.
                match Something::<T>::get() {
                    // Return an error if the value has not been set.
                    None => Err(Error::<T>::NoneValue.into()),
                    Some(old) => {
                        // Increment the value read from storage. This will cause an error in the event
                        // of overflow.
                        let new = old.checked_add(1).ok_or(Error::<T>::StorageOverflow)?;
                        // Update the value in storage with the incremented result.
                        Something::<T>::put(new);
                        Ok(())
                    },
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

## Next Steps

With the pallet implemented, the next steps involve ensuring its reliability and performance before integrating it into a runtime.

- Testing - learn how to effectively test the functionality and reliability of your pallet to ensure it behaves as expected. Check the [Testing](){target=\_blank} section for detailed instructions

> - Benchmarking - explore methods to measure the performance and execution cost of your pallet. Refer to the [Benchmarking](){target=\_blank} section for guidance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Benchmarking - explore methods to measure the performance and execution cost of your pallet. Refer to the [Benchmarking](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} section for guidance
```

> - Adding the pallet to a runtime - follow the steps to successfully include your pallet in a Polkadot SDK-based runtime, making it ready for use in your blockchain. Visit the [Add a Pallet to the Runtime](){target=\_blank} section for the necessary steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Adding the pallet to a runtime - follow the steps to successfully include your pallet in a Polkadot SDK-based runtime, making it ready for use in your blockchain. Visit the [Add a Pallet to the Runtime](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} section for the necessary steps
```
